>> This is the greatest
story in human history.
It's never been told.
It must be told, and it
will be told eventually.
And if we can wake people
up to realize who they are
and why they're here,
that'll be a good beginning.
We have had an intimate
interrelationship
with advanced intelligence
from the stars
from the beginning
of human history,
and that intimate
interrelationship
is still under way.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We're living in a very
little circumscribed fence,
a little fence of reality, and
we're supposed to live within
this.
But there's a world
beyond that little fence
that we're being
told to live in,
and I think that there's a lot
going on beyond that fence.
The real question is, how much,
how far advanced are they,
what the hell are they doing?
>> When we talk about
extraterrestrials,
there are a number of different
theories about what's going
on, and there are a number of
different possibilities if any
of this is true,
what's happening.
Well, here are some thoughts.
They might be coming
here as conquerors.
What we are seeing
might be some sort
of advanced protracted
reconnaissance program aimed
at assessing our
capability to fight back,
and maybe genetically
modifying us maybe.
For example, you
hear a lot of people
talk these days about
genetically targeted
bioweapons.
What if the purpose of the
alien abduction phenomenon
was to implant in us a
genetically targeted bioweapon
that at a flick of a switch
would wipe us out or enslave
us or reduce us to
malleable creatures
who would do the bidding
of these extraterrestrial
conquerors?
Another possibility is that
they come here as explorers.
That might be a good thing, or
as we've seen in human history,
it might lead to
exploitation of the natives.
This time, the natives
are us, human beings.
It might lead to things
like missionaries
and forced conversion to
some bizarre alien religion.
So a lot of speculation.
We don't know what
might be out there.
I mean, sometimes when
you look at the world,
you can't understand why
certain countries or people do
the things they do.
If we can't understand
with any real confidence,
say, the motivation of the
North Korean government
because we can't get
inside their heads,
what hope have we
got of understanding
the mindset of an alien?
We can only come
at this question
from anthropocentric
viewpoint, and we are forever
going to be hamstrung by
that lack of imagination.
It is literally inconceivable.
We cannot think like an alien
because we don't know what
an alien is and what an
alien is motivated by.
So that's the situation.
We might be dealing
with conquerors.
with explorers
who might then become exploiters
of resources, including us.
We might be dealing-- and I hope
this is where we are on this
spectrum--
with scientists,
and particularly--
well, scientists who might
be studying us, biologists.
Perhaps UFOs and visiting aliens
are the equivalent of someone
like David Attenborough.
"Here on planet
Earth, I'm having
a look at these funny little
humans and what they're up to."
So that's one possibility.
Another possibility
is that we're
dealing with that branch of
science that is particularly
predicated on looking at
humans and human society,
anthropologists.
Maybe extraterrestrials
come here
as anthropologists, which
would explain why they don't
land on the White House lawn.
Because once you start openly
interacting and communicating,
you're not seeing us
in our natural habitat,
and you're not seeing
natural behaviors anymore.
You get cultural contamination.
So maybe they
study us from afar.
Maybe they abduct the odd
person and put them back
and try and wipe their
memories, and some people
believe them and some not.
But as I say, don't land
on the White House lawn
because then you get
that contamination.
And to truly advanced
civilizations in the cosmos,
newly emerging
civilizations like our own
might just be the
last interesting thing
left in the universe.
So perhaps we are fascinating
to them on that level.
Who are these crazy humans?
What are they up to?
What are they building?
Where are they going?
What do we think
their journey will be?
Let's follow them.
When we speculate about
extraterrestrials, my goodness,
we can imagine a wide
range of possibilities.
But my favorite theory is that
the real answer, what aliens
are doing, where they
come from, what they want,
what the interaction is,
maybe the real answer
is something we haven't
even thought of yet.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I have a question
for all Americans.
Where did all the money go?
That's a big question.
Why has our economy
bottomed out?
Was it by chance?
Was it by accident?
Was it by mistake?
I don't think so.
There is something called the
"Secret Space Program," which
was an outgrowth of the
discoveries in the 1940s
and 1950s of crashed UFO
craft that were recovered.
The first recovery that I
know of occurred in 1940.
It was not Roswell.
Seven years before
Roswell, an alien craft
crashed in Port
Girardeau, Missouri.
The local townspeople saw
the crash, came upon it,
and pulled out the pilots.
And these were such good
Christian and God-fearing
people that even though they
recognized that the pilots were
foreign, they called a
minister to come and administer
the last rites to
these poor creatures.
And a certain Reverend Huffman
was called, and he took off.
He met the chief of police, and
he saw the body of an alien.
And so the army came in
and took over the scene.
They took the craft.
They took the body.
That was 1940.
In 1947, we all know
about the Roswell crash,
but there were two
other crashes that year,
one in Kingman,
Arizona, and an earlier
one that occurred in April.
These craft were recovered.
So this resulted in
a spurt of activity
to reverse-engineer these craft.
There was an official
investigation
that was called Project Sign.
This was the first investigation
into the Roswell crash.
And the conclusion
of Project Sign
was that we were being visited
by people from outer space that
had a higher level of
civilization and technology
than we did.
But when this report arrived
in Washington to the Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
General Hoyt S. Vandenberg,
he said, we cannot
accept this conclusion.
Write another paper.
And so that paper was quashed,
and Project Grudge was
initiated, which evolved
into Project Blue Book,
in order to keep track
of UFO activities,
UFO interaction
with human beings,
and at the same
time, to cover it up,
which is what Project
Grudge and Project Blue Book
were primarily assigned to do.
Catalog all the UFO events,
the sightings, the landings,
the evidence, procure it
all, silence the witnesses.
And so that went on
for a very long time.
However, during the
same period of time,
UFO activity increased
throughout the United States.
And it's well known that
they have had incursions
into our military bases,
our nuclear facilities,
that they track
nuclear submarines,
and that they have a very great
concern with nuclear weapons
and what human beings
intend to do with them.
So some of them
are guardian angels
and then others are not
such guardian angels.
Some of them were obviously,
during the 1950s and '60s,
trying to lure the United
States and the Soviet Union
into war with each other.
So there we have it.
We have one faction
of aliens that
wants to pit mankind
against itself
in order for us to
destroy ourselves
through self-immolation
and a nuclear holocaust.
And at the same time, there's
another group of aliens
that's showing
itself as guardians,
protectors of humankind
at other times,
but also giving stern warnings
that should we ever be
so foolish as to launch a
nuclear missile at another
country, we cannot be sure
where that missile will land.
The Secret Space
Program evolved out
of this, the need for secrecy,
hiding the facts of UFO
and flying saucer activity.
At the same time,
having to play catch-up
with a civilization that was
so far ahead of us that it was
feared that if its
presence were revealed,
the Brookings Institution said
that the scientists, doctors,
and engineers of our society
would be so depressed,
so despondent with
the futility of having
to catch up with a
civilization that
was at least 200 years
ahead of us, that they would
be so disheartened that
they might not even get up
to go to work the next morning.
And that is it in a nutshell.
That's a statement in the
Brookings Institution report,
that science and society
would be destabilized
by such a revelation.
However, the military
industrial complex
was not destabilized
by any means.
They were very
stabilized and got
to work on reverse engineering
the products extracted
from the crashed UFOs.
This story can be read
in Philip Corso's book
"The Day After Roswell."
Fiber optics, the
maser, the laser,
anti-gravitational propulsion,
all of these things
were found in the
crashed Roswell
disc, the crashed
Aztec flying saucer,
and several others that have
been recovered since that time.
So the United States government
got to work alongside Canada,
and the funding was funneled
to the Secret Space Program.
And trillions and trillions
of dollars were invested,
and these trillions and
trillions of dollars
had to come from somewhere.
And as a result, many
government programs
engaged in black operations.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm sure you've all
heard of many years
ago there was an audit
done the United States Air
Force and the United
States military,
and they were finding that
the contractors were charging
the United States government
$1,500 for a hammer,
$500 for a toilet seat.
So I believe that this
is the methodology where
all of this money was skimmed
off and hidden and funneled
into this advanced, very
rapid development program
to try to catch up with the
UFOs to build our own UFOs based
on their reverse-engineer
technology,
and we have been successful.
As a result, we have something
called the Navy's Tenth Fleet.
It's masked as a cyber
warfare organization, software
and computer related.
However, the Navy
Tenth Fleet is the name
of a space fleet, which
was discovered, by the way,
by Gary McKinnon.
When he hacked into
the NASA computers,
he saw the list of Tenth Fleet
non-terrestrial officers.
There were terrestrial
officers, and there was a list
of non-terrestrial officers.
Gary McKinnon made
this publicly known,
and he suffered dearly for it.
He was ultimately protected
by the British Parliament that
forestalled his extradition
to the United States,
where the United States
government wanted
to try him for hacking and
spying and revealing classified
knowledge.
But the British people
and the British parliament
protected Gary McKinnon,
and he is safe and sound
and probably still recovering
from his ordeal in England.
The Secret Space
Program is real.
It is siphoning off our national
resources, our national wealth,
and preparing the public
for what may turn out
to be a fake alien invasion.
That is the danger, that
human beings may be wrought up
with panic and fear
through the use of MKUltra
and mind control techniques
in the mass media
to make us believe that we
are being invaded by people
from outer space and that
we must go to war with them
and that we must use nuclear
weapons to fight them.
Well, all of that would
lead to self-immolation.
That's going up in flames, for
those of you who don't know.
Self-immolation,
a very bad thing.
So it is my hope that
we will forestall this,
that we will not fall into
traps and ploys and false flag
attacks and panic at the
idea of being invaded
by people from outer space.
In fact, people from outer
space are already amongst us.
They've been amongst
us for over 70 years.
They walk amongst us
unrecognized, some of them,
and others don't show
themselves in the daylight
because no one can really bear
their presence or their smell.
That's been my experience.
Certain extraterrestrials have
not only a horrible appearance,
but have a foul smell that
will drive a person into panic.
And it takes a very strong
mind to hold itself together
when assaulted, assailed,
by horrible smells that
are sometimes described as
sulfurous, sometimes described
as, well, beyond description is
all I've got to say about that.
We don't have to go
into more details,
but it's something
that's very, very
damaging to the
human being to be
in the presence of these beings.
And I do not recommend
anyone trying to make contact
with space brothers.
I think we should be cautious.
We should not be afraid,
but we should be cautious.
As President Reagan said,
"trust, but verify."
I think verify, then trust.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Telepathic communication
is mind to mind.
Humans are verbal.
We make a lot of noise.
But the non-humans appear
to have almost instantaneous
thought, thought words.
They work in symbols.
They work in numbers.
Whatever is happening
in their minds,
it's huge downloads all at once.
Back in the early 1980s
was the first time
that I was introduced by a
kind of whistleblower person
in army military, active
at the time actually,
to the notion that
there is a secret war,
and that the secret war has
been ongoing around this planet,
in this planet, underneath
the surface of this planet
for millennia, and
that the forces that
conflict with each
other is a mystery
or was a mystery to this man
except that our government was
very concerned about who
are our allies really
and who are our enemies.
And that's the way it
was laid out to me.
And in the process
of describing that,
this man told me that he
was involved in a group,
that they would get
some kind of a call,
and they would go
to wherever there
was either a landing or a crash
or some sort of interaction
with something in the non-human
category on this Earth.
And we've heard about
Projects Pounce and Moon Dust
and these various groups that
since the 1940s Truman had
organized, MJ 12, Majestic 12,
and that part of their work
was to have units
that were trained.
They were top secret.
They couldn't talk to anybody.
But their jobs were to go to
any location on the planet
where there might be either
a crash or non-humans doing
something, and we wanted
to get there and monitor.
And he said we have been
able to send signals
to the Ebens, another
type that are gray.
They have heads that
are shaped like a pear.
They have eyes that
are not black lenses,
that they are large and usually
dark, but not the lens type.
And they sent out a
frequency asking for help,
and that one of the gray craft
went to this town in Arizona
and met up with our
military people.
This man telling me
this was firsthand.
This was his experience.
And he said his superior
officer came to him and said,
one of the Ebens has
agreed to let you--
the man who was telling
me his firsthand story--
have the experience of
having a telepathic download
so you'll know what it is like.
And his superior officer said
that they had an agreement.
The being knew that
humans are very
alarmed when these creatures
float above the ground.
That is their preferred state
because they have technology
that neutralizes gravity.
But they know that
humans get upset
by things that float in
the air, and so he said,
he's agreed to
stay on the ground.
And when they walk
on the ground,
they waddle, and
it will be funny.
It will look like Donald Duck.
Be prepared for it.
And then he will
get to a point where
he will start coming towards
you in a straight line.
At about six to seven
feet away, he will stop.
You will want to run.
You will feel like when
we do flamethrower drills.
Your entire body is
going to be feeling fear.
And this is in order.
I want you to stand your ground.
I don't care how
much you want to run.
I want you to experience
this telepathic download.
Now, the guy telling me this
is 6' 3", 6' 4", a big guy.
And he said, I thought,
oh, give me a break.
I'm not a child.
I'm ready for this.
Here comes the being.
It's waddling.
It looks like Donald
Duck in a cartoon.
It makes him feel like
he wants to laugh.
He's hearing his
boss telling him
exactly what's going to happen.
This thing is
waddling coming up.
And he said when it
got to about six feet,
his entire legs began to shake.
He wanted to run.
He felt like he
was going to faint.
And he said, the
only thing that kept
me standing there is that I knew
that my superior officer was
off to the left about 30 feet.
And by God, I was not going
to fall apart in front of him.
So I stood there.
But, Linda, it was terrifying.
And then he said, the
being's head tilted up.
And he said, when those eyes
met my eyes, I lost all control.
He said, the best
I can tell you,
if you took seven
Hollywood movies
and you started running them
through your mind all at once,
sound, temperature,
touch, everything
is going on in
seven story lines.
And on top of every
one of the films
are three-dimensional
gold hieroglyphs.
The symbols are running
on top of all of the film.
And I realized my mind is
trying to ask questions.
And with every question
my mind is trying to ask,
it's making another one
of these branching movies.
And his boss had told
him that when you faint,
we'll be there to catch you.
And he thought that
that was such nonsense
that until that moment, with
all of these films running
through his head, it had
never occurred to him that he
would ever faint in his life,
and he lost consciousness.
It was three solid hours later.
When he opened his eyes, he
was lying in a cot in a room.
They had caught him.
They had put him in a bed.
Three hours to recover.
And when he opened
his eyes, he was still
not able to sit up and
get off of the bed.
And he said, Linda, that's
what my superior officer wanted
me to understand.
We all would like, just
like Spielberg's movie
of the little ET that got
drunk in the kitchen on beer,
we'd like to have
extraterrestrials take us
to Starbucks and sit down
and have coffee and tell us
about the universe.
And he said, it's
never going to happen
because the difference
between the way
our mind works and their minds
work, they're overwhelming.
And what happened
is that I got a call
that I might be able
to talk to the man who
lived with one of
the Ebens retrieved
from the Roswell region and
had been taken to Los Alamos
National Lab between 1949 and
June 18, 1952, when this being
died of unknown causes is
the way the document read
that I was shown.
And backtracking
from that death,
this was the story that I
was to hear from the man
there at the site in Roswell.
He was with a group.
They had gotten word that
there had been a UFO crash.
There is not a date on this
in terms of July 2 to 4, 1947,
but we know that there
were three crashes.
This might have happened
somewhere later in '48 or '49.
And by then, these groups
that were in Project Pounce
and Moon Dust that were trained
to come to where there was
any kind of an interaction
with what was being called
by our government
"extraterrestrial biological
entities," they were
trained to move in a group
into a location.
There would be some that would
pack up the-- let's call it
the metal wreckage or
technology that they found,
and there would be
others in the group that
would be focused on the
bodies, alive or dead,
of the extraterrestrial
biological entities.
And where this story starts is
that the group was moving in,
and they could see bodies.
And the man who is talking
to me said all of a sudden
in his mind, he felt pain,
heard a cry, high-pitched.
The other men are moving, and he
stops because he doesn't know.
He can't see anything
in front of him.
But he's feeling this horror
inside of his own mind,
and he is absolutely paralyzed
with what is happening.
What is happening to me?
Is this something here?
And he couldn't see anything.
He didn't at that point say
anything to the men around him.
He was completely disoriented by
what was happening in his head.
And not only was he
hearing this high pitch,
he was seeing images.
He said, it was like
I was getting flashes,
like slides of something.
He said, and maybe it was like
I was looking through a window.
Maybe it was dust.
Maybe this was the crash.
Maybe this is what
was happening,
and it's being put into my mind.
And I started to
move, and I walked,
and the other men were on.
And I realized
something is pulling me.
It felt like I was being pulled
by jello to come and look right
at a place.
And then he realizes
there's debris.
There is a dark shadow.
And that he walked
over to the debris,
and he picked up
something, and here
is a live being, not human.
And when he picked
up the debris,
that what came into his
mind at that moment--
because now it was
eye to eye contact
with this being
lying in the debris--
was everything, what happened,
whatever the malfunction, what
they were seeing as
the craft went down,
the crash, all of it, and
then the overriding pain
that this being was feeling.
And that's when he
told everybody there,
come look at this.
This is alive.
We need to help.
Because he was able to see
pictures, get sound, feel
emotion, it was decided that
his assignment from there
on out was he was going
to stay with this being.
They transferred
both to Los Alamos.
And for that period of
time, as I understand,
was in the year 1949, I believe,
from there to June 18, 1952,
they lived together.
And there were two
sentences that I
was told by this
man of the downloads
that he got during
that period of time.
He said it was like
being with a child
with the mind of a thousand men.
He would have these image
exchanges and thought exchanges
that for some reason he
could get from this being
and nobody else could.
Our government began
realizing that they
needed to find translators.
They needed to find
talented people who
could get the images
and the numbers
and the thought words
from these beings,
and they started
looking for translators.
That's the category
this man became.
But he said at one point in
all of their word exchanges
in their minds with seeing
pictures and symbols,
that this being was
explaining about where
they came from and the cosmos
and this sentence or sentences.
"We made you.
We put you here.
But you have to live it."
And this man looked
at me, and he said,
Linda, what I've come to
understand from this being
that I lived with and I loved,
the machinery of this universe
is reincarnation, the
recycling of souls.
We treat the soul and
recycling like mythology.
These beings seem
to be communicating
that the most important part
of our life as human beings
was the soul and what happened
at the moment of death.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Individuals that claim
to be abducted by aliens,
all of the procedures done
of them seem to indicate that
the aliens are
interested in their DNA.
And mothers or
mothers-to-be are exposed
to certain babies
that are extracted
from them during
their pregnancy,
and later on are presented to
them so they could interact
and eventually have aliens
study the interaction
between the mother
and the fetus.
So apparently, long
story short, there
seems to be a hybridization
program run by the aliens.
Now, this has been
going on for many years,
and people are trying
to figure out what
is the real purpose behind it.
And the most likely
hypothesis is
that what the
aliens are doing is
that they may be
using parts of our DNA
that would allow them to be
able to live in this planet
without having any problems.
In other words, oxygen is
very, very toxic, especially
to the DNA.
But we have some special
techniques in order for us
to be able to counteract
that, to protect ourselves,
and to be able to
work around it.
Aliens do not have this.
So for instance, if
they were to live
in an oxygen-infested
atmosphere,
they would quickly
develop cancer.
In similar fashion, we are very
susceptible to radioactivity.
Aliens are not.
Why?
Because their crafts
are always leaving
residuals of radioactive energy.
What I'm trying to
say is that if we
were to go out in another
planet and try to live there,
we would have to be able to
incorporate that inhabitants'
evolution into our DNA, which
will allow us to actually live
in this planet without
having any health hazards.
And that may be the
reason why they're
doing all this hybridization
experiments in order
to create a species that
formerly belongs to them,
but will be able to
survive in this atmosphere,
and will be able to eat what
is offered from this planet,
to be able to function,
to be able to see, to be
able to hear, and to be able to
go about in an environment just
like ours.
>> To any skeptic who says,
well, these are just stories,
these are just accounts.
Hell, life is just stories.
Life is just accounts.
The entire criminal justice
system, for example,
is based on
eyewitness testimony.
When did we stop thinking
eyewitness testimony was
important?
We put, and rightly so, a vast
amount of stock in testimony.
Why shouldn't we do so when that
testimony comes from someone
who says they've seen a UFO or
they've had an alien abduction
experience?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> With most researchers
or whistleblowers,
they get approached by CIA,
and they are subject to immense
pressure to continue their
research, receive funding,
and at the very end, prove and
say to everyone that that was
a hoax.
An example of this case
is with Colin Andrews.
Colin Andrews was UK's foremost
expert on crop circles.
So what happened was
that Colin Andrews was
a really strong figure
on that research field
and apparently had
so many followers,
was approached by CIA.
And these are Colin Andrews
words in an interview.
He was approached,
and he was told
that what CIA does with
most of researchers
is that they fund them
and they keep them going
and they keep them
moving on up to the point
where they will say publicly
that this is a hoax.
And lo and behold,
that's exactly what
happened with Mr. Colin Andrews.
He went to the US.
He received funding from
Rockefeller Institute,
of course.
And then he came
up with a interview
stating that at least 80% of
those crop circles are hoaxes.
In the first movie
"ETs Among Us,"
within an analysis of the alien
autopsy presumably presented
by Ray Santilli back in
1995, we focused mainly
on the medical aspects, on
certain interesting facts.
And we came up
with the conclusion
that that may have
been an actual alien.
What happens with
Santilli is something
that we've seen with
other researchers
or so-called whistleblowers.
CIA approaches them
and invites them
to basically debunk everything.
Later on, Santilli came
up with a confession
that apparently this
was completely fake,
that he manufactured this
doll with a friend of his,
that he was a specialist
on mannequin dolls,
and another friend of his that
presumably was the surgeon that
cut up the body,
and that it was just
a hoax or a
restoration of a film.
So he was giving us
a bit of a gray story
pretty much indicating
that that was a hoax.
However, if we take a very
close look at this footage,
again, we will see that
his story doesn't add up.
There's absolutely no way
that his story explains
what we've seen in this video,
and this is for many reasons.
One being the fact that in
order to manufacture this alien
that we see there, you
need skills that renders
you a superb professional.
No amateur can do this.
No somebody that
is in the field but
is not doing an amazing job.
So this is not an amateur
who is having fun.
What makes Ray
Santilli completely
fraudulent in his confession,
in him rescinding an explanation
of the footage, is the fact
that in the second video
where he has the
debris and he's showing
all the cockpits and
the panels and stuff,
apparently he says
that they came out
with certain hieroglyphs
that they put in those beams.
But those hieroglyphs
are Greek, and they
read "eleutheria," which means
freedom, which is something
that Santilli never came
up with in his confession.
So I think Ray
Santilli must have
been under a lot
of pressure, and he
decided to actually go about,
just like Colin Andrews,
to play along and to
completely ridicule himself.
Because if he was really
looking out for a career,
the last thing he
would ever do is
to become a mockery for
everyone in the field
and everyone around the world.
Moreover, we know that there's
another video out there
that shows an alien.
Again, it's back from 1947
that shows an alien being
brought into a base.
Santilli has nothing
to do with this.
If we study that
second video, we
will see several
faces, apparently
the people that used to
serve the Five or Ninth group
at Roswell, New Mexico, in 1947.
And if we actually go back
to the Museum of Roswell
and we look into the
archives of the people
and the staff of
the base, we will
be able to identify
the first medic that
reaches over and leans over
just to inspect that alien.
If you look closely,
that person has
a deformity in his left ear,
which gives him an identity.
Now, we can look up this person
and we can find this person,
and that is going to be
a very strong indication
that this video is authentic.
And if that video is authentic,
then Santilli's video
is also authentic.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Back in the spring of 1990,
one of the subjects that was
breaking out during that period
of time in 1990 were crop
formations.
They were on "60 Minutes."
They were on "2020."
Barbara Walters was
talking about how
are these incredibly
beautiful patterns being
put down 800,000 feet long in
wheat fields or barley fields
or rape fields,
especially in England.
But that year-- a lot of
people don't realize--
I counted the
number of countries,
and we had crop formations
being photographed
in 23 countries, 1990.
So by 1991, I wanted
to get to England.
I wanted to be able to spend
time in the formations.
I wanted to see
what it felt like.
And by the summer of 1992, I
finally was landing in London
and was taken to
Marlborough to get
to where I was going to be
staying in the Vale of Pewsey.
For 2,000 years,
the cereal crops
in the Vale of Pewsey in England
have been associated always
with the cycles of
planting and harvesting.
For 2,000 years, the
same land has been a home
to all kinds of crops.
So this has been the heart of
where crop formations first
emerged in the 1970s.
A few people knew about them.
And then by '88 and
1989 were the first
what they called pictograms.
Some of them were 750
feet long, 800 feet long.
They were largely circles
with lines and odd symbols
coming off of the lines.
By 1992, when I landed and
got to the Vale of Pewsey,
everything was evolving into
very sophisticated patterns.
There were beginning
to be people
who were recognizing that
there was mathematical language
in these crop formations.
And I had not been
in a formation.
I had studied hundreds
from the United States.
And so the first thing
that I wanted to do,
and I joined up with
friends, is to organize
getting into a crop formation.
And I had arrived at night,
and it was the next morning.
Seven of us went to
one at Milk Hill,
a place that's had a
spectacular formation
every year since around 1989.
And when we got there,
we parked in an area
where we could park
cars on a hill.
And then we had to go as a
group along the top of Milk Hill
in order to get up above a
430-foot, I believe it was,
huge--
it was spirals,
paths, big circles.
It was not a pictogram.
It was like a geometry.
And I remember getting up, and
we got to a point right above.
And some of the people who were
more experienced, they said,
we've got to come down where we
can go down a tram line so we
don't trample any of the wheat.
And we all, like children,
for reasons unknown,
we're on a hill, but we all
started sort of running,
and we ran all the way down
into the Milk Hill tram
line going right along
the Milk Hill formation.
Now, there were
about seven of us.
I just happened,
for some reason,
to be the person who
was at the furthest.
So I am going down the tram
line the furthest this way,
and everybody else
was kind of spread
along here, 400 feet bigger
than a football field.
I had my 35 millimeter camera
hanging around my neck,
and I had the curiosity to
go right into this formation.
I wanted to see, what does
it feel like to be in it?
And so I'm walking with
tremendous innocence,
my first pattern ever on Earth.
And I get to an opening, and it
was like I hit a wall of jello.
It actually was firm
and made me kind of
like I bumped into a wall.
I'm not seeing a wall.
I'm not seeing
anything but air, but I
could feel there
was this solidness,
and I stopped, puzzled.
I looked down.
The others had stopped.
Nobody was going
into this pattern.
So I brought my
35 millimeter up.
I put it so I could change
and go down real close
and come back and wide, and
I started taking photographs.
And I realized when I went into
a zoom in a particular place
only about 5 feet from
where I was blocked
by this whatever, jello, I
could see wheat this direction,
wheat this direction.
I could see another layer.
And I thought, oh, my Lord,
I want to get in there.
This thing is layered.
And after about
another minute or two,
whatever this strange jello
that had blocked apparently
all of us, it just
kind of evaporated.
And then I felt almost like I
was being invited into the crop
formation at that
point, and I didn't
want to step on anything.
So I went on tippy-toe for a
while like in a circle trying
to see, how can I get close?
How can I get photographs
of the layers?
And finally, my curiosity
overwhelmed my desire
not to step on any of this crop,
and I sort of on my tiptoes,
I went to what I had been
trying to photograph.
And I got down on my hands
and knees, and I put my hand--
here was the top layer, here was
the layer going this direction.
There was another layer, and
it went down seven layers,
all opposite directions.
And then my fingers,
I could feel the soil.
I could feel the soil
coming under my fingernails
as I did this and realized that
the top of the formation that
was going like this
all the way down
was about up to maybe 12 inches.
That from the soil
up, this pattern
was spread for 430-some feet
with all of these layers.
And there were not
even layers, there
were areas where it swirled
like water in circles.
There were all
kinds of exquisite--
nothing was out of place.
It was breathtaking.
And then I felt this
pull to go to the right.
Everybody else had
gone to the far end.
And at 430 feet, I'm that far
away, they're that far away,
but I'm pulled to the right.
And as I'm walking, I'm trying
to walk on the edge on my toes.
But as I'm walking to
go to this far end that
seems to be pulling
me, I'm realizing
that the complexity
of those seven
layers and these
beautiful swirls,
it's continuing all of the way.
And I get to the end.
It's wheat that was
about waist high.
I'm now at the edge.
You can't go any further.
And here is solid, solid
wheat, like you were inside
of a velvet carpet
but it's wheat.
And as I'm standing there
looking out on the solid wheat
and then looking in at
the complexity of all
of these layers and then
back out onto this wheat,
it was like a thought voice.
It said, "Life on Earth
is not guaranteed."
And I turned again.
And as I turned to look out on
the wheat with "Life on Earth
is not guaranteed,"
suddenly it was
like when you're in the presence
of something like a Bengal
tiger.
And the Bengal tiger can
be 20 feet away from you
in a zoo or a safari park,
and you're protected,
but when you look into the
eyes of a Bengal tiger,
there is not only
profound intelligence,
but a sense of danger
because the intelligence is
capable of doing anything.
And at that moment
looking out on that wheat,
it was as if a Bengal tiger
was staring back at me.
And I remember that moment,
this is what made this pattern.
This is an intelligence that
is capable of destroying
us or letting us live.
Life on Earth is not guaranteed.
And it was at that moment
that every crop formation
that I was ever in by the
hundreds for the next decade,
that voice was always
there, that sense
this is really important.
These crop formations have
mathematical language.
If we were smart
enough, we would all
be sharing what is the language
in these crop formations
and praying that that Bengal
tiger intelligence knew
that a lot of us actually
cared about whether we
survive on Earth or not.
Back in 1992 during my
first trip to England,
as I began moving
into crop formations
and feeling them out, a
lot of us started saying,
this formation, it feels really
positive, and I feel good.
But I was in that one
over on the barn road,
and it felt terrible.
And that made me start
thinking, what if there
are two types of energy, two
types of intelligences that
are even competing
with each other
in the crops of the world,
like the skin of the world?
And that where we feel
really good in some,
it may be something that
is trying to inspire us,
to give us joy, to give
us exaltation, which I
felt in those crop formations.
And those that made
me feel sick or that
made me stop, that was the
beginning of these crop
formations are not equal.
Not all are positive,
and not all are negative.
But when they are negative,
it had a physical impact
on the body, and I think
the mind and the soul,
that many of us who came
to go to crop formations
together would have this moment
where, this I have to leave.
Now what else was
interesting about this,
I began to realize that
over the 10 or 12 years
that I kept going to England,
that the crop formations,
if this was going to happen
where you felt like you were
sucked of air, it
was going to be
in something like an
eightfold geometry
or a five-fold geometry
or maybe an 11-fold.
It was never a three,
it was never a six,
it was never a seven,
and it was never a nine.
And in the whole issue of
sigils and ancient geometries
and mathematical laws being
underneath the sacred geometry,
it was one of those
evolutions that people
who were mathematicians
began to study in detail
and put on websites
what they were
finding in terms of mathematical
ratios in crop formations.
And eventually, I remember
one of the first dialogues
I had with people.
Did you ever feel that when you
were in an eightfold geometry
that it was different
than the sixfold geometry
across the field?
And there had been one
specific example where
there were six or
seven of us, and there
had been Windmill
Hill, and there
had been an eightfold geometry.
And then in the field right
opposite, it was a sixfold.
And all of us who had gone
into eightfold geometry, when
we got into the sixfold,
everybody was saying,
there is a difference.
Could it be that those
behind certain geometries,
whatever the intelligence, are
in conflict with everything
that is behind the three,
the six, the nine, the seven
geometry?
You will see that the Flower
of Life, which should be
ends with threes,
that go to sixes, that
go to nines, that that is
associated with what is called
the Light or the Christ Light.
If you go to the eight, that
eight geometry is associated
with Mesopotamia and ancient
sigils, as if math, numbers,
associations with
things in the unseen
are part of the
fabric of what is
behind the crop formations that
have occurred on this planet.
It may be subtle to many
people, but the challenges
we need to understand why it is
that a place like Glastonbury,
with the red and white springs
that have been going since they
say for 2,000 years, and that
Arimathea brought Christ there
and that there is a relationship
between this land where
crop formations seem
to have focused.
Could it be that it isn't
just math, that it isn't just
something from
another intelligence,
that the crop
formations themselves
go to the heart
of something that
is trying to get
human attention,
that the soul of humanity is
at stake, that life is not
guaranteed, and that
the crop formations seem
to be spelling out
that there is conflict
between light and dark, numbers
and mathematical language?
And that has always been with me
ever since I spent so much time
in them that it goes beyond
beauty, it goes beyond poetry,
it goes beyond
mathematical language.
That the crop
formations that began
coming to this
planet in the 1970s
have something to do with
a philosophical argument
about what is allowable
to do with life.
And that the crop formations
to me today in 2017,
the crop formations have
always been like a signal.
I've always felt
they were a signal.
We have a path that
we can go to life,
and we have a path
we can go to death.
And something like that
Bengal tiger intelligence
is watching, provoking,
waiting, and I hope
inspiring the move to life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]